The dataset consists of the global temperature anomalies between land and ocean between the years 1850 and 2023. A time series analysis is conducted to identify the changes in the temperature over the years compared to a reference value. The global anomalies are calculated with respect to the averages of 1901-2000. The dataset comprises of 174 observations. The aim of the study is to identify the best fitting model that can be used to forecast if needed for future studies.

To identify the best fitting time series model, a descriptive analysis is conduct. The descriptive analysis also includes a creation of TS plot which helps in identifying the 5 important descriptive features of the TS models - Trend, Seasonality, Changing Variance, Behavior and Change points. In case of a presence of changing variance and trend, the series is transformed using a Box-Cox transformation to adjust the changing variance and differencing is performed on the series to detrend the series. On the stationary series a set of model specifications methods like ACF,PACF, EACF and BIC tables are performed to identify a possible set of models. These models are then fitted using CSS and ML methods and the best models are identified based on AIC, BIC and Error measure values. R programming software is used for this study.

From the model fitting strategy, we can conclude that ARIMA (2,1,0) is the best model. However, conducting a residual analysis is out of scope for this study, and therefore we cannot confirm this assumption. In case the residual analysis returns a negative result, the second-best model to consider is ARIMA(1,1,3).
