The dataset consists of the carbon emission by the fossil fuel and cement production
between the year 1959 to 2014 and comprises of 56 observations. All values in the data are
measured in million tonnes carbon per year (MtC/yr). For this study, the total emissions from
Coal, Oil, Gas, Cement, and Flaring is considered. The objective of the study is to answer the research question "What are the most accurate forecasts for the carbon emissions from the fossil fuel and cement production for the next 10 years?"

The data used in the study is collected from the Global carbon project 2016 - Global Carbon Budget (Canadell, 2012). The descriptive analysis provides the summary of the data and provides an analysis on Time series to identify the 5 important descriptive features of the TS models - Trend, Seasonality, Changing Variance, Behavior and Change points. In case of changing variance Box-Cox transformation is conducted and in case of non-stationary data, the data is differenced to detrend the series and identify the best model that fits the series. On the stationary data, methods like ACF,PACF, EACF and BIC tables are performed to identify the possible models. The selected models are fitted using ML and CSS method and the best models are identified based on AIC, BIC and Error measure values. Once the best model is identified the data is fitted and forecasts are extracted. R programming software is used for this study. Important snippets of the code are provided in the results section and the entire code used for this project can be found in the Appendix Section.

From the Model fitting and residual analysis, it is evident that ARIMA{1,1,1} is the best model that fits the time series. The forecasts as per the ML method shows that the carbon emission is expected to increase over the years to an estimated 10788 MTC/year in 2024.
